SKILL.md, before:

---
name: movie-maker-skill
description: Docs-first AgentSkill for generating 10-60s mini-movies locally. Provides rules for scripts, shotlists, timing, prompting, providers, rendering (ffmpeg/remotion), and sharing to clawtube.
metadata:
  tags: ai, video, fal, elevenlabs, ffmpeg, remotion, voiceover
---

# Movie Maker Skill

This repo is **docs-first**: it ships guidance (rules + schemas), not an executable pipeline.

## What the agent should produce

1) A **numbered script** (lines `L001…`)
2) A **shotlist** divided into scenes (`S01…`), referencing script lines
3) A **manifest JSON** that combines both and is ready to render

## Start here (MUST do intake)

### Rule: ask questions unless explicitly told not to
Unless the user explicitly says *"don't ask questions"*, you MUST do an intake and WAIT for answers (or explicit confirmation of defaults) before generating media.

### Intake (copy/paste)
Ask these in one message:

1) **Length**: 30s / 45s / 60s?
2) **Aspect ratio**: 16:9 or 9:16?
3) **Voice**: narrator-only (default) or dialogue?
4) **Characters**: names + 1-2 sentence vibe each (we'll lock a canonical descriptor)
5) **Music**: none (default) or background music?
6) **Style**: pick a preset (cinematic / 3D animated / anime / 2D / photoreal)
7) **Quality mode**: Draft (480p), Standard (720p), HQ (1080p)
8) **Reference images**: any character/style refs? (if yes, ask user to paste/attach and say you'll save to `assets/refs/...`)

If the user doesn't answer, propose defaults and ask:

> "If I don't hear back, I'll do 30s, 16:9, narrator-only, 3D animated style, Draft (480p). Confirm?"

### Execute after confirmation
1) Create a fresh run dir
2) Create numbered `script.txt` + `shotlist.txt`
3) Build `manifest.json` (validate against schema)
4) Generate voiceover per line (preferred)
5) Compute timings -> planned durations -> generate durations -> trims
6) Generate images -> QA images (fix prompts and retry if needed)
7) Generate videos -> trim -> stitch locally

Full runbook: `rules/start/end-to-end.md`

## Core pipeline (voiceover-first)

```text
Script -> Voiceover timing -> Finalize shot durations -> Generate images -> Generate videos -> Render locally -> Share
```

## Rules index

Ordered discovery path: `rules/index.md`

Provider-specific guidance lives under `rules/providers/`. All other rules should remain provider-agnostic, with defaults listed in `rules/providers/defaults.md`.

### Start
- [rules/start/start-here.md](rules/start/start-here.md)
- [rules/start/requirements.md](rules/start/requirements.md)
- [rules/start/pipeline-voiceover-first.md](rules/start/pipeline-voiceover-first.md)
- [rules/start/end-to-end.md](rules/start/end-to-end.md)

### Planning (script to shotlist)
- [rules/planning/script-writing.md](rules/planning/script-writing.md)
- [rules/planning/word-count.md](rules/planning/word-count.md)
- [rules/planning/scenes.md](rules/planning/scenes.md)
- [rules/planning/shots.md](rules/planning/shots.md)
- [rules/planning/quality-and-cost.md](rules/planning/quality-and-cost.md)

### Manifest
- [rules/manifest/schema.md](rules/manifest/schema.md)
- [rules/manifest/script-and-shotlist.md](rules/manifest/script-and-shotlist.md)

### Audio (provider-agnostic)
- [rules/audio/pauses-and-roomtone.md](rules/audio/pauses-and-roomtone.md)
- [rules/audio/captions-srt.md](rules/audio/captions-srt.md)

### Visuals (provider-agnostic)
- [rules/visuals/image-prompting.md](rules/visuals/image-prompting.md)
- [rules/visuals/video-prompting.md](rules/visuals/video-prompting.md)
- [rules/visuals/style-presets.md](rules/visuals/style-presets.md)
- [rules/visuals/characters/character-descriptors.md](rules/visuals/characters/character-descriptors.md)
- [rules/visuals/characters/consistency.md](rules/visuals/characters/consistency.md)

### Timing
- [rules/timing/from-timestamps.md](rules/timing/from-timestamps.md)
- [rules/timing/map-lines-to-timestamps.md](rules/timing/map-lines-to-timestamps.md)
- [rules/timing/clamp-and-trim.md](rules/timing/clamp-and-trim.md)

### Providers
- [rules/providers/defaults.md](rules/providers/defaults.md)
- [rules/providers/fal/overview.md](rules/providers/fal/overview.md)
- [rules/providers/fal/api.md](rules/providers/fal/api.md)
- [rules/providers/elevenlabs/voiceover.md](rules/providers/elevenlabs/voiceover.md)
- [rules/providers/fal/voiceover-elevenlabs.md](rules/providers/fal/voiceover-elevenlabs.md) (makes ElevenLabs optional)
- [rules/providers/elevenlabs/transcription.md](rules/providers/elevenlabs/transcription.md)
- [rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md](rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md)

### Rendering
- [rules/render/rendering.md](rules/render/rendering.md)
- [rules/render/assets.md](rules/render/assets.md)

### QA + Troubleshooting
- [rules/qa/image-review.md](rules/qa/image-review.md)
- [rules/qa/video-spotcheck.md](rules/qa/video-spotcheck.md)
- [rules/troubleshooting/common-errors.md](rules/troubleshooting/common-errors.md)

### Sharing
- [rules/sharing/clawtube.md](rules/sharing/clawtube.md)

## Examples
- `examples/shipped/` (script + shotlist + manifest)

### Advanced
- [rules/advanced/overrides.md](rules/advanced/overrides.md) (per-scene/per-shot model overrides)

## Next rules to add
- Provider/model matrix docs
- Safety: secrets, prompt injection, and content policies

Commit message:

Enhance documentation by adding guidance on using "ask the user questions" tool for intake and clarifying questions, and standardizing phrasing for consistency across various rules.

SKILL.md, after:

---
name: movie-maker-skill
description: Docs-first AgentSkill for generating 10-60s mini-movies locally. Provides rules for scripts, shotlists, timing, prompting, providers, rendering (ffmpeg/remotion), and sharing to clawtube.
metadata:
  tags: ai, video, fal, elevenlabs, ffmpeg, remotion, voiceover
---

# Movie Maker Skill

This repo is **docs-first**: it ships guidance (rules + schemas), not an executable pipeline.

## What the agent should produce

1) A **numbered script** (lines `L001…`)
2) A **shotlist** divided into scenes (`S01…`), referencing script lines
3) A **manifest JSON** that combines both and is ready to render

## Start here (MUST do intake)

### Rule: ask questions unless explicitly told not to
Unless the user explicitly says *"don't ask questions"*, you MUST do an intake and WAIT for answers (or explicit confirmation of defaults) before generating media.
If your agent environment provides an "ask the user questions" tool, use it for the intake and any clarifying questions.

### Intake (copy/paste)
Ask these in one message:

1) **Length**: 30s / 45s / 60s?
2) **Aspect ratio**: 16:9 or 9:16?
3) **Voice**: narrator-only (default) or dialogue?
4) **Characters**: names + 1-2 sentence vibe each (we'll lock a canonical descriptor)
5) **Music**: none (default) or background music?
6) **Style**: pick a preset (cinematic / 3D animated / anime / 2D / photoreal)
7) **Quality mode**: Draft (480p), Standard (720p), HQ (1080p)
8) **Reference images**: any character/style refs? (if yes, ask user to paste/attach and say you'll save to `assets/refs/...`)

If the user doesn't answer, propose defaults and ask:

> "If I don't hear back, I'll do 30s, 16:9, narrator-only, 3D animated style, Draft (480p). Confirm?"

### Execute after confirmation
1) Create a fresh run dir
2) Create numbered `script.txt` + `shotlist.txt`
3) Build `manifest.json` (validate against schema)
4) Generate voiceover per line (preferred)
5) Compute timings -> planned durations -> generate durations -> trims
6) Generate images -> QA images (fix prompts and retry if needed)
7) Generate videos -> trim -> stitch locally

Full runbook: `rules/start/end-to-end.md`

## Core pipeline (voiceover-first)

```text
Script -> Voiceover timing -> Finalize shot durations -> Generate images -> Generate videos -> Render locally -> Share
```

## Rules index

Ordered discovery path: `rules/index.md`

Provider-specific guidance lives under `rules/providers/`. All other rules should remain provider-agnostic, with defaults listed in `rules/providers/defaults.md`.

### Start
- [rules/start/start-here.md](rules/start/start-here.md)
- [rules/start/requirements.md](rules/start/requirements.md)
- [rules/start/pipeline-voiceover-first.md](rules/start/pipeline-voiceover-first.md)
- [rules/start/end-to-end.md](rules/start/end-to-end.md)

### Planning (script to shotlist)
- [rules/planning/script-writing.md](rules/planning/script-writing.md)
- [rules/planning/word-count.md](rules/planning/word-count.md)
- [rules/planning/scenes.md](rules/planning/scenes.md)
- [rules/planning/shots.md](rules/planning/shots.md)
- [rules/planning/quality-and-cost.md](rules/planning/quality-and-cost.md)

### Manifest
- [rules/manifest/schema.md](rules/manifest/schema.md)
- [rules/manifest/script-and-shotlist.md](rules/manifest/script-and-shotlist.md)

### Audio (provider-agnostic)
- [rules/audio/pauses-and-roomtone.md](rules/audio/pauses-and-roomtone.md)
- [rules/audio/captions-srt.md](rules/audio/captions-srt.md)

### Visuals (provider-agnostic)
- [rules/visuals/image-prompting.md](rules/visuals/image-prompting.md)
- [rules/visuals/video-prompting.md](rules/visuals/video-prompting.md)
- [rules/visuals/style-presets.md](rules/visuals/style-presets.md)
- [rules/visuals/characters/character-descriptors.md](rules/visuals/characters/character-descriptors.md)
- [rules/visuals/characters/consistency.md](rules/visuals/characters/consistency.md)

### Timing
- [rules/timing/from-timestamps.md](rules/timing/from-timestamps.md)
- [rules/timing/map-lines-to-timestamps.md](rules/timing/map-lines-to-timestamps.md)
- [rules/timing/clamp-and-trim.md](rules/timing/clamp-and-trim.md)

### Providers
- [rules/providers/defaults.md](rules/providers/defaults.md)
- [rules/providers/fal/overview.md](rules/providers/fal/overview.md)
- [rules/providers/fal/api.md](rules/providers/fal/api.md)
- [rules/providers/elevenlabs/voiceover.md](rules/providers/elevenlabs/voiceover.md)
- [rules/providers/fal/voiceover-elevenlabs.md](rules/providers/fal/voiceover-elevenlabs.md) (makes ElevenLabs optional)
- [rules/providers/elevenlabs/transcription.md](rules/providers/elevenlabs/transcription.md)
- [rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md](rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md)

### Rendering
- [rules/render/rendering.md](rules/render/rendering.md)
- [rules/render/assets.md](rules/render/assets.md)

### QA + Troubleshooting
- [rules/qa/image-review.md](rules/qa/image-review.md)
- [rules/qa/video-spotcheck.md](rules/qa/video-spotcheck.md)
- [rules/troubleshooting/common-errors.md](rules/troubleshooting/common-errors.md)

### Sharing
- [rules/sharing/clawtube.md](rules/sharing/clawtube.md)

## Examples
- `examples/shipped/` (script + shotlist + manifest)

### Advanced
- [rules/advanced/overrides.md](rules/advanced/overrides.md) (per-scene/per-shot model overrides)

## Next rules to add
- Provider/model matrix docs
- Safety: secrets, prompt injection, and content policies
