skills/movie-maker/rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md, before:

---
name: music-elevenlabs
category: music
impact: MEDIUM
metadata:
  tags: music, elevenlabs, soundtrack, optional
---

# Music (optional): ElevenLabs

Music is **optional** and should be treated as a stylistic choice.

## When to use
Use background music if it helps the intended vibe (mood, momentum, emotion).
Skip music if:
- the user wants a raw / documentary / “dry” feel
- dialogue needs maximum clarity
- the pacing needs intentional uncomfortable silence

## Requirements
- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY`

See also:
- `rules/start/requirements.md`

## Creative control / override rule
Default behavior:
- Add subtle background music at low volume.

But this rule is **ignorable** if the user asks for:
- silence
- dynamic pacing (e.g. comedic timing, interruption, breathy realism)
- any other creative direction

## Suggested workflow

1) Pick a music prompt
- Describe genre + instrumentation + tempo + mood.
- Avoid lyrics unless explicitly requested.

2) Generate a music bed (duration)
- Target the **full movie duration** (or slightly longer).

3) Mix it under voiceover
- Keep music quiet.
- Use ducking or sidechain compression if needed.

## Mixing guidance (ffmpeg)

### Baseline: quiet bed under narration
Assume you have:
- `tts/voiceover.mp3`
- `music/music.mp3`

Mix at a conservative level:

```bash
ffmpeg -y \
  -i tts/voiceover.mp3 \
  -i music/music.mp3 \
  -filter_complex "\
    [1:a]volume=0.15[m];\
    [0:a][m]amix=inputs=2:duration=first:dropout_transition=2[a]\
  " \
  -map 0:v? -map "[a]" \
  -c:v copy -c:a aac -b:a 192k \
  export/movie_with_music.mp4
```

Notes:
- `volume=0.15` is a starting point — adjust by ear.
- If your video is separate, mux the mixed audio into it.

### Optional: duck music when voice is present
This keeps narration intelligible:

```bash
ffmpeg -y \
  -i tts/voiceover.mp3 \
  -i music/music.mp3 \
  -filter_complex "\
    [1:a]volume=0.25,sidechaincompress=threshold=0.03:ratio=8:attack=50:release=300[ducked];\
    [0:a][ducked]amix=inputs=2:duration=first:dropout_transition=2[a]\
  " \
  -map 0:v? -map "[a]" \
  -c:v copy -c:a aac -b:a 192k \
  export/movie_with_music.mp4
```

## API note
Use ElevenLabs “Music” capability.
Docs: https://elevenlabs.io/docs/overview/capabilities/music

Keep provider details lightweight here; the main requirement is: generate a bed, then mix it.

Commit message:

Update documentation for Movie Maker Skill to clarify music options and API key requirements. Specify that fal ElevenLabs Music does not require an ElevenLabs key, while direct ElevenLabs Music requires an API key. Add new music endpoint under fal provider overview for better user guidance.

skills/movie-maker/rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md, after:

---
name: music-elevenlabs
category: music
impact: MEDIUM
metadata:
  tags: music, elevenlabs, soundtrack, optional
---

# Music (optional): ElevenLabs

Music is **optional** and should be treated as a stylistic choice.

## When to use
Use background music if it helps the intended vibe (mood, momentum, emotion).
Skip music if:
- the user wants a raw / documentary / “dry” feel
- dialogue needs maximum clarity
- the pacing needs intentional uncomfortable silence

## Requirements
- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` (direct ElevenLabs only)

If you want to avoid an ElevenLabs key, use fal ElevenLabs Music via `FAL_API_KEY`.

See also:
- `rules/start/requirements.md`

## Creative control / override rule
Default behavior:
- Add subtle background music at low volume.

But this rule is **ignorable** if the user asks for:
- silence
- dynamic pacing (e.g. comedic timing, interruption, breathy realism)
- any other creative direction

## Suggested workflow

1) Pick a music prompt
- Describe genre + instrumentation + tempo + mood.
- Avoid lyrics unless explicitly requested.

2) Generate a music bed (duration)
- Target the **full movie duration** (or slightly longer).

3) Mix it under voiceover
- Keep music quiet.
- Use ducking or sidechain compression if needed.

## Mixing guidance (ffmpeg)

### Baseline: quiet bed under narration
Assume you have:
- `tts/voiceover.mp3`
- `music/music.mp3`

Mix at a conservative level:

```bash
ffmpeg -y \
  -i tts/voiceover.mp3 \
  -i music/music.mp3 \
  -filter_complex "\
    [1:a]volume=0.15[m];\
    [0:a][m]amix=inputs=2:duration=first:dropout_transition=2[a]\
  " \
  -map 0:v? -map "[a]" \
  -c:v copy -c:a aac -b:a 192k \
  export/movie_with_music.mp4
```

Notes:
- `volume=0.15` is a starting point — adjust by ear.
- If your video is separate, mux the mixed audio into it.

### Optional: duck music when voice is present
This keeps narration intelligible:

```bash
ffmpeg -y \
  -i tts/voiceover.mp3 \
  -i music/music.mp3 \
  -filter_complex "\
    [1:a]volume=0.25,sidechaincompress=threshold=0.03:ratio=8:attack=50:release=300[ducked];\
    [0:a][ducked]amix=inputs=2:duration=first:dropout_transition=2[a]\
  " \
  -map 0:v? -map "[a]" \
  -c:v copy -c:a aac -b:a 192k \
  export/movie_with_music.mp4
```

## API note
Use ElevenLabs “Music” capability.
Docs: https://elevenlabs.io/docs/overview/capabilities/music

Keep provider details lightweight here; the main requirement is: generate a bed, then mix it.
