skills/movie-maker/rules/start/end-to-end.md, before:

---
name: runbook-end-to-end
category: runbook
impact: CRITICAL
metadata:
  tags: runbook, end-to-end, ffmpeg, fal, elevenlabs
---

## End-to-end runbook (docs-only)

This repo does **not** ship an executable pipeline. This runbook is the canonical sequence an agent should follow to generate a mini-movie locally.

### Preconditions (agent must verify)

#### API keys
Defaults require:
- `FAL_API_KEY` (fal)
- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` (optional if using direct ElevenLabs; not required if using fal Eleven v3 TTS)

If you swap providers, update this list based on `rules/providers/defaults.md`.

How to get keys:
- fal: https://fal.ai/
- ElevenLabs: https://elevenlabs.io/

#### Loading keys from `.env.local`
If keys are in a file, source them explicitly (agent shells may not persist state):

```bash
set -a
[ -f .env.local ] && source .env.local
set +a
```

Security rule: **never print full API keys**. If you need to verify they exist:

```bash
echo "FAL_API_KEY: ${FAL_API_KEY:+set}"
echo "ELEVENLABS_API_KEY: ${ELEVENLABS_API_KEY:+set}"
```

#### Local tools

```bash
command -v ffmpeg
command -v ffprobe
command -v curl
command -v jq
command -v base64
```

### Files to produce (suggested local run dir)

Create a working folder (anywhere):

```bash
RUN_DIR="$(pwd)/runs/$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S)"
mkdir -p "$RUN_DIR"/{script,tts,image,video,edit,export}
```

Shell state note: many agent environments execute commands in separate shells. Prefer:

```bash
cd "$RUN_DIR" && <command>
```

or use absolute paths.

The agent should end with:
- `export/movie.mp4`
- `export/manifest.json`
- `export/captions.srt` (optional)
- `export/movie_with_music.mp4` (optional)

---

## Step 0 — Intake (MUST)

**Do not proceed** until you have either:
- user answers to the intake questions, or
- user explicitly confirms defaults.

Use the canonical intake template:
- `rules/start/start-here.md`
If your agent environment provides an "ask the user questions" tool, use it for the intake and any clarifying questions.

## Step 0 — Write script + shotlist

Write:
- `script/script.txt` using numbered lines (`L001…`) (see `rules/manifest/script-and-shotlist.md`)
- `script/shotlist.txt` with scenes (`S01…`) referencing line ranges

Then convert these into a single `manifest.json` matching `rules/manifest/movie-manifest.schema.json`.

Tip: Start simple.
- 30s movie → 6 scenes
- 1 shot per scene

---

## Step 1 — Generate voiceover per line (preferred)

Preferred because it makes timing/alignment deterministic.

Choose a provider:

**Option A — Direct ElevenLabs** (default)
- See `rules/providers/elevenlabs/voiceover.md`

**Option B — fal Eleven v3 TTS** (makes ElevenLabs optional)
- See `rules/providers/fal/voiceover-elevenlabs.md`

For each line where `kind` is `dialogue` or `voiceover`:

1) Generate audio with timestamps
2) Save `tts/line_L###.mp3`
3) Record duration into `script.lines[].timing.durationSeconds`

See:
- `rules/timing/map-lines-to-timestamps.md`

Concatenate per-line audio to make a single `tts/voiceover.mp3` (recommended for final mux).

**Important:** add pauses/room tone between voiced lines so pacing doesn't feel rushed.
See:
- `rules/audio/pauses-and-roomtone.md`

---

## Step 2 — Finalize timing + shot durations

1) Use timestamps to compute per-line timing (start/end).
2) Compute scene duration from referenced lines + small padding.
3) Choose each shot's `plannedDurationSeconds`.

If the video model requires durations (e.g. 4–12s):
- set `generateDurationSeconds` to a supported value
- set `trim.durationSeconds = plannedDurationSeconds` when planned < generated

See:
- `rules/timing/from-timestamps.md`
- `rules/timing/clamp-and-trim.md`

---

## Step 3 — Generate images (default provider)

For each shot:
- generate an image using the default image provider
- save to `image/SHxx.jpg`

See:
- `rules/providers/fal/overview.md`
- `rules/visuals/image-prompting.md`

### Step 3.5 — Image QA before video (recommended)

Before generating any videos, do a quick QA pass on the images.
If the agent is multimodal, it should visually inspect each image.

If an image doesn't match the intent:
- update the manifest (`shot.imagePrompt` and/or character/style fields)
- regenerate **only** that image

See:
- `rules/qa/image-review.md`

---

## Step 4 — Generate videos (default provider)

For each shot:
- generate video using the default video provider from the image
- request `generateDurationSeconds`
- save to `video/SHxx.mp4`

If trimming is required:
- trim into `edit/SHxx.trim.mp4`

See:
- `rules/visuals/video-prompting.md`
- `rules/timing/clamp-and-trim.md`

---

## Step 5 — Stitch locally (ffmpeg)

1) Concat shot videos in timeline order.
2) Mux `tts/voiceover.mp3` as the final audio track.

See:
- `rules/render/rendering.md`

---

## Step 5.5 — Music (optional)

If the user wants background music, generate a music bed and mix it under the voiceover.

Rule: Music is **optional by default** and must be **skipped** if the user asks for silence or maximum dialogue clarity.

See:
- `rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md`

---

## Step 6 — Captions (optional)

If you have word timestamps:
- generate `export/captions.srt`

See:
- `rules/audio/captions-srt.md`

---

## Step 7 — Export + share

Write final:
- `export/movie.mp4`
- `export/manifest.json`

Optional:
- `export/captions.srt`

Sharing target:
- clawtube upload API (see `rules/sharing/clawtube.md`).

Commit message:

Update voiceover options and API key requirements in documentation for Movie Maker Skill. Clarify the use of fal Eleven v3 TTS and its independence from ElevenLabs API key. Emphasize the necessity of FAL_API_KEY for image and video generation, and streamline the preflight checks for user credentials.

skills/movie-maker/rules/start/end-to-end.md, after:

---
name: runbook-end-to-end
category: runbook
impact: CRITICAL
metadata:
  tags: runbook, end-to-end, ffmpeg, fal, elevenlabs
---

## End-to-end runbook (docs-only)

This repo does **not** ship an executable pipeline. This runbook is the canonical sequence an agent should follow to generate a mini-movie locally.

### Preconditions (agent must verify)

#### API keys
Defaults require:
- `FAL_API_KEY` (fal, required for images/video)
- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` (optional if using direct ElevenLabs voiceover or music)

If you swap providers, update this list based on `rules/providers/defaults.md`.

**Stop if missing:** If `FAL_API_KEY` is not set, you cannot generate images or videos. Ask the user to set it or confirm a planning-only output.

How to get keys:
- fal: https://fal.ai/
- ElevenLabs: https://elevenlabs.io/

#### Loading keys from `.env.local`
If keys are in a file, source them explicitly (agent shells may not persist state):

```bash
set -a
[ -f .env.local ] && source .env.local
set +a
```

Security rule: **never print full API keys**. If you need to verify they exist:

```bash
echo "FAL_API_KEY: ${FAL_API_KEY:+set}"
echo "ELEVENLABS_API_KEY: ${ELEVENLABS_API_KEY:+set}"
```

#### Local tools

```bash
command -v ffmpeg
command -v ffprobe
command -v curl
command -v jq
command -v base64
```

### Files to produce (suggested local run dir)

Create a working folder (anywhere):

```bash
RUN_DIR="$(pwd)/runs/$(date +%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S)"
mkdir -p "$RUN_DIR"/{script,tts,image,video,edit,export}
```

Shell state note: many agent environments execute commands in separate shells. Prefer:

```bash
cd "$RUN_DIR" && <command>
```

or use absolute paths.

The agent should end with:
- `export/movie.mp4`
- `export/manifest.json`
- `export/captions.srt` (optional)
- `export/movie_with_music.mp4` (optional)

---

## Step 0 — Intake (MUST)

**Do not proceed** until you have either:
- user answers to the intake questions, or
- user explicitly confirms defaults.

Use the canonical intake template:
- `rules/start/start-here.md`
If your agent environment provides an "ask the user questions" tool, use it for the intake and any clarifying questions.

## Step 0 — Write script + shotlist

Write:
- `script/script.txt` using numbered lines (`L001…`) (see `rules/manifest/script-and-shotlist.md`)
- `script/shotlist.txt` with scenes (`S01…`) referencing line ranges

Then convert these into a single `manifest.json` matching `rules/manifest/movie-manifest.schema.json`.

Tip: Start simple.
- 30s movie → 6 scenes
- 1 shot per scene

---

## Step 1 — Generate voiceover per line (preferred)

Preferred because it makes timing/alignment deterministic.

Choose a provider:

**Option A — Direct ElevenLabs** (default)
- See `rules/providers/elevenlabs/voiceover.md`

**Option B — fal Eleven v3 TTS** (makes ElevenLabs optional)
- See `rules/providers/fal/voiceover-elevenlabs.md`

For each line where `kind` is `dialogue` or `voiceover`:

1) Generate audio with timestamps
2) Save `tts/line_L###.mp3`
3) Record duration into `script.lines[].timing.durationSeconds`

See:
- `rules/timing/map-lines-to-timestamps.md`

Concatenate per-line audio to make a single `tts/voiceover.mp3` (recommended for final mux).

**Important:** add pauses/room tone between voiced lines so pacing doesn't feel rushed.
See:
- `rules/audio/pauses-and-roomtone.md`

---

## Step 2 — Finalize timing + shot durations

1) Use timestamps to compute per-line timing (start/end).
2) Compute scene duration from referenced lines + small padding.
3) Choose each shot's `plannedDurationSeconds`.

If the video model requires durations (e.g. 4–12s):
- set `generateDurationSeconds` to a supported value
- set `trim.durationSeconds = plannedDurationSeconds` when planned < generated

See:
- `rules/timing/from-timestamps.md`
- `rules/timing/clamp-and-trim.md`

---

## Step 3 — Generate images (default provider)

For each shot:
- generate an image using the default image provider
- save to `image/SHxx.jpg`

See:
- `rules/providers/fal/overview.md`
- `rules/visuals/image-prompting.md`

### Step 3.5 — Image QA before video (recommended)

Before generating any videos, do a quick QA pass on the images.
If the agent is multimodal, it should visually inspect each image.

If an image doesn't match the intent:
- update the manifest (`shot.imagePrompt` and/or character/style fields)
- regenerate **only** that image

See:
- `rules/qa/image-review.md`

---

## Step 4 — Generate videos (default provider)

For each shot:
- generate video using the default video provider from the image
- request `generateDurationSeconds`
- save to `video/SHxx.mp4`

If trimming is required:
- trim into `edit/SHxx.trim.mp4`

See:
- `rules/visuals/video-prompting.md`
- `rules/timing/clamp-and-trim.md`

---

## Step 5 — Stitch locally (ffmpeg)

1) Concat shot videos in timeline order.
2) Mux `tts/voiceover.mp3` as the final audio track.

See:
- `rules/render/rendering.md`

---

## Step 5.5 — Music (optional)

If the user wants background music, generate a music bed and mix it under the voiceover.

Rule: Music is **optional by default** and must be **skipped** if the user asks for silence or maximum dialogue clarity.

See:
- `rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md`

---

## Step 6 — Captions (optional)

If you have word timestamps:
- generate `export/captions.srt`

See:
- `rules/audio/captions-srt.md`

---

## Step 7 — Export + share

Write final:
- `export/movie.mp4`
- `export/manifest.json`

Optional:
- `export/captions.srt`

Sharing target:
- clawtube upload API (see `rules/sharing/clawtube.md`).
