skills/movie-maker/rules/start/requirements.md, before:

---
name: requirements
category: setup
impact: CRITICAL
metadata:
  tags: requirements, setup, env, ffmpeg
---

# Requirements (local use)

This repo is **docs-first**: it does not ship a runnable pipeline.
However, if you want to *execute* the workflow locally (generate media + render), you’ll need a few tools and credentials.

Defaults assume the provider mapping in `rules/providers/defaults.md`. If you swap providers (e.g., Mire), substitute the equivalent keys below.

**Minimum requirement:** `FAL_API_KEY` is required to generate images and videos. Without it, you can only produce planning artifacts (script, shotlist, manifest).

## 0) Capability matrix (what you want to do)

| Capability | Needed | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| Write script / shotlist / manifest | none | Pure planning; no tools or keys required |
| Generate voiceover w/ timestamps | `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` | Recommended: ElevenLabs `with-timestamps` |
| Generate images/videos | `FAL_API_KEY` | Used for Seedream + Seedance models |
| Render final mp4 locally | `ffmpeg` (+ `ffprobe`) | Baseline renderer; Remotion optional |
| Upload to clawtube | depends on clawtube | Keys/config live in the `clawtube` repo |

## 1) Local tools

### ffmpeg (required for rendering)
This workflow assumes you can stitch generated clips and mux audio.

Preflight checks:

```bash
command -v ffmpeg
command -v ffprobe
```

If missing, install ffmpeg (e.g. Homebrew):

```bash
brew install ffmpeg
```

### Node (optional)
Only required if you’re using a Node-based pipeline or Remotion.

```bash
node -v
```

## 2) Environment variables (by provider)

### ElevenLabs (voiceover + music + transcription)
Required if you want **direct** ElevenLabs voiceover, music, or Scribe transcription:

- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY`

Used by:
- `rules/providers/elevenlabs/voiceover.md`
- `rules/providers/elevenlabs/transcription.md`
- `rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md`

**Note:** If you use **fal Eleven v3 TTS** for voiceover, you do **not** need `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` for narration.

### fal (image + video generation, optional voiceover)
Required if you want to generate images/videos via fal. Also supports voiceover via fal Eleven v3 TTS:

- `FAL_API_KEY`

Used by:
- `rules/providers/fal/overview.md`
- `rules/providers/fal/voiceover-elevenlabs.md`

## 3) What is intentionally *not* required here

- **OpenAI keys**: not required by this repo’s workflow rules.
- **Cloudflare / R2 / Supabase keys**: not required for planning or rendering locally.
  Upload configuration is owned by the `clawtube` repository.

## 4) Suggested `.env` pattern

If you’re implementing your own pipeline, keep secrets out of git.

Example:

```bash
export ELEVENLABS_API_KEY="..."
export FAL_API_KEY="..."
```

Or in a local `.env` (untracked).

Commit message:

Update documentation for Movie Maker Skill to clarify music options and API key requirements. Specify that fal ElevenLabs Music does not require an ElevenLabs key, while direct ElevenLabs Music requires an API key. Add new music endpoint under fal provider overview for better user guidance.

skills/movie-maker/rules/start/requirements.md, after:

---
name: requirements
category: setup
impact: CRITICAL
metadata:
  tags: requirements, setup, env, ffmpeg
---

# Requirements (local use)

This repo is **docs-first**: it does not ship a runnable pipeline.
However, if you want to *execute* the workflow locally (generate media + render), you’ll need a few tools and credentials.

Defaults assume the provider mapping in `rules/providers/defaults.md`. If you swap providers (e.g., Mire), substitute the equivalent keys below.

**Minimum requirement:** `FAL_API_KEY` is required to generate images and videos. Without it, you can only produce planning artifacts (script, shotlist, manifest).

## 0) Capability matrix (what you want to do)

| Capability | Needed | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| Write script / shotlist / manifest | none | Pure planning; no tools or keys required |
| Generate voiceover w/ timestamps | `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` | Recommended: ElevenLabs `with-timestamps` |
| Generate images/videos | `FAL_API_KEY` | Used for Seedream + Seedance models |
| Render final mp4 locally | `ffmpeg` (+ `ffprobe`) | Baseline renderer; Remotion optional |
| Upload to clawtube | depends on clawtube | Keys/config live in the `clawtube` repo |

## 1) Local tools

### ffmpeg (required for rendering)
This workflow assumes you can stitch generated clips and mux audio.

Preflight checks:

```bash
command -v ffmpeg
command -v ffprobe
```

If missing, install ffmpeg (e.g. Homebrew):

```bash
brew install ffmpeg
```

### Node (optional)
Only required if you’re using a Node-based pipeline or Remotion.

```bash
node -v
```

## 2) Environment variables (by provider)

### ElevenLabs (voiceover + music + transcription)
Required if you want **direct** ElevenLabs voiceover, music, or Scribe transcription:

- `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY`

Used by:
- `rules/providers/elevenlabs/voiceover.md`
- `rules/providers/elevenlabs/transcription.md`
- `rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md`

**Note:** If you use **fal Eleven v3 TTS** for voiceover, you do **not** need `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` for narration.
If you use **fal ElevenLabs Music**, you do **not** need `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` for music.

### fal (image + video generation, optional voiceover and music)
Required if you want to generate images/videos via fal. Also supports voiceover and music via fal ElevenLabs models:

- `FAL_API_KEY`

Used by:
- `rules/providers/fal/overview.md`
- `rules/providers/fal/voiceover-elevenlabs.md`

## 3) What is intentionally *not* required here

- **OpenAI keys**: not required by this repo’s workflow rules.
- **Cloudflare / R2 / Supabase keys**: not required for planning or rendering locally.
  Upload configuration is owned by the `clawtube` repository.

## 4) Suggested `.env` pattern

If you’re implementing your own pipeline, keep secrets out of git.

Example:

```bash
export ELEVENLABS_API_KEY="..."
export FAL_API_KEY="..."
```

Or in a local `.env` (untracked).
