skills/movie-maker/rules/start/start-here.md, before:

---
name: runbook-start-here
category: runbook
impact: CRITICAL
metadata:
  tags: runbook, intake, questions, operator
---

## Start here: how to run the skill (one clear path)

### Input
A user request like:

> "Create a movie about X in Y style."

### Rule: ask questions unless explicitly told not to
Unless the user explicitly says *"don't ask questions"*, you MUST do an intake and WAIT for answers (or explicit confirmation of defaults) before generating media.
If your agent environment provides an "ask the user questions" tool, use it for the intake and any clarifying questions.

### Intake (copy/paste)
Ask these in one message:

1) **Length**: 30s / 45s / 60s?
2) **Aspect ratio**: 16:9 or 9:16?
3) **Voice**: narrator-only (default) or dialogue?
4) **Characters**: names + 1-2 sentence vibe each (we'll lock a canonical descriptor; see `rules/visuals/characters/character-descriptors.md`)
5) **Music**: none (default) or background music? (optional; see `rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md`)
6) **Style**: pick a preset (cinematic / 3D animated / anime / 2D / photoreal)
7) **Quality mode**: Draft (480p), Standard (720p), HQ (1080p)
8) **Model preset**: Cheap and Fast (Z-Image Turbo + Seedance v1 fast) or High Quality, Expensive (Seedream 4.5 + Seedance 1.5 pro)
9) **Reference images**: any character/style refs? (if yes, ask user to paste/attach and say you'll save to `assets/refs/...`)

If the user doesn't answer, propose defaults and ask:

> "If I don't hear back, I'll do 30s, 16:9, narrator-only, 3D animated style, Draft (480p), High Quality, Expensive preset. Confirm?"

### Execute after confirmation
Once confirmed:

1) Create a fresh run dir
2) Create numbered `script.txt` + `shotlist.txt`
3) Build `manifest.json` (validate against schema)
4) Generate voiceover per line (preferred)
5) Compute timings → planned durations → generate durations → trims
6) Generate images → QA images (fix prompts and retry if needed)
7) Generate videos → trim → stitch locally

Follow the canonical runbook:
- `rules/start/end-to-end.md`

Commit message:

Update voiceover options and API key requirements in documentation for Movie Maker Skill. Clarify the use of fal Eleven v3 TTS and its independence from ElevenLabs API key. Emphasize the necessity of FAL_API_KEY for image and video generation, and streamline the preflight checks for user credentials.

skills/movie-maker/rules/start/start-here.md, after:

---
name: runbook-start-here
category: runbook
impact: CRITICAL
metadata:
  tags: runbook, intake, questions, operator
---

## Start here: how to run the skill (one clear path)

### Input
A user request like:

> "Create a movie about X in Y style."

### Preflight: provider keys (surface early)
You cannot generate assets without credentials. Before running the pipeline:

- **FAL_API_KEY** is required for images and video clips.
- Voiceover can use:
  - **fal Eleven v3 TTS** (no ElevenLabs key needed), or
  - **Direct ElevenLabs** (requires `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY`).
- Music (optional) requires **ELEVENLABS_API_KEY** (direct ElevenLabs).

If keys are missing, stop and ask the user to set them (or confirm they want a planning-only output).

### Rule: ask questions unless explicitly told not to
Unless the user explicitly says *"don't ask questions"*, you MUST do an intake and WAIT for answers (or explicit confirmation of defaults) before generating media.
If your agent environment provides an "ask the user questions" tool, use it for the intake and any clarifying questions.

### Intake (copy/paste)
Ask these in one message:

1) **Length**: 30s / 45s / 60s?
2) **Aspect ratio**: 16:9 or 9:16?
3) **Voice**: narrator-only (default) or dialogue?
4) **Characters**: names + 1-2 sentence vibe each (we'll lock a canonical descriptor; see `rules/visuals/characters/character-descriptors.md`)
5) **Music**: none (default) or background music? (optional; see `rules/providers/elevenlabs/music.md`)
6) **Style**: pick a preset (cinematic / 3D animated / anime / 2D / photoreal)
7) **Quality mode**: Draft (480p), Standard (720p), HQ (1080p)
8) **Model preset**: Cheap and Fast (Z-Image Turbo + Seedance v1 fast) or High Quality, Expensive (Seedream 4.5 + Seedance 1.5 pro)
9) **Provider keys**: confirm `FAL_API_KEY` is set (required). Confirm `ELEVENLABS_API_KEY` is set unless using fal TTS.
10) **Reference images**: any character/style refs? (if yes, ask user to paste/attach and say you'll save to `assets/refs/...`)

If the user doesn't answer, propose defaults and ask:

> "If I don't hear back, I'll do 30s, 16:9, narrator-only, 3D animated style, Draft (480p), High Quality, Expensive preset. Confirm?"

### Execute after confirmation
Once confirmed:

1) Create a fresh run dir
2) Create numbered `script.txt` + `shotlist.txt`
3) Build `manifest.json` (validate against schema)
4) Generate voiceover per line (preferred)
5) Compute timings → planned durations → generate durations → trims
6) Generate images → QA images (fix prompts and retry if needed)
7) Generate videos → trim → stitch locally

Follow the canonical runbook:
- `rules/start/end-to-end.md`
